---
title: Output View
page_title: .NET MAUI AIPrompt Documentation - Output View
description: Learn more about the output view in the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI AIPrompt control.
position: 2
slug: aiprompt-output-view
---

# Output View

The Output View shows the responses generated by the underlying AI service. Each response renders in its dedicated output item and provides two options to the user—to copy the content of the response or to retry the request. The Output View is activated as soon as output items are added to the `AIPrompt`'`OutputItems` collection. 

Once the user fills out a prompt within the Input View and requests a response, the AIPrompt control will raise `PromptRequest` event/`PromptRequestCommand` command. In it, you can contact your AI model with the request. When the responses are generated by the AI service, you can create an `AIPromptOutputItem` object for each response and add it to the `OutputItems` collection. Once items are added to the `OutputItems` collection, the Output View will become active.

Each output item will also feature two additional options-to upvote or downvote the response. To handle this interaction, you can use the `OutputItemRatingChangedCommand` command.

The `AiPromptOutputItem` provides the following properties:

* `Title`(`string`)&mdash;Defines the response title.
* `InputText`(`string`)&mdash;Defines the input text (the end-user's request) that was sent to the AI
* `ResponseText(`string`)&mdash;Defines the response from the AI model.
* `Rating`(`double`)&mdash;Defines the end-user rating for this response.


The Output View is represented by the `AIPromptOutputView` class and provides the following properties:

* `OutputItems`(`IList<AIPromptOutputItem>`)&mdash;Defines a collection of the generated response items.
* `OutputItemCopyCommand`(`ICommand`)&mdash;Defines a command executed when the copy button of the generated response item is pressed.
* `OutputItemRetryCommand`(`ICommand`)&mdash;Defines a command executed when the retry button of the generated response item is pressed.
* `OutputItemRatingChangedCommand`(`ICommand`)&mdash;Defines a command executed when the rating of the generated response is changed through the UI.

Here is an example of a simple `AIPromptOutputView`:

<snippet id='aiprompt-inputoutputview-xaml' />

and the referenced `ViewModel` class:

<snippet id='aiprompt-views-viewmodel' />

## See Also

- [Views]({%slug aiprompt-views-overview%})
- [Input View]({%slug aiprompt-input-view%})
