---
title: 11.0.0
description: Handle the changes in the 11.0.0 release version of the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI components.
page_title: Breaking Changes in 11.0.0
slug: changes-in-11-0-0
position: 7
---

# Breaking Changes in Version 11.0.0

This article lists the breaking changes introduced with the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI 11.0.0 release version.

## Common Changes

The `SkiaSharp` is updated to `3.116.1` version.

Trial and commercial users now use the same product package. The trial and commercial product versions merged into a single unified distribution package. The product access now depends on a license key file. This eliminates the need for separate trial downloads. For more information, please refer to the [Set up your license]({%slug set-up-your-license%}) documentation article.

The following package dependencies are removed from the `Telerik.UI.for.Maui` NuGet package: 

* `Telerik.Documents.CMapUtils`
* `Telerik.Documents.Fixed.FormatProviders.Image.Skia`
* `Telerik.Documents.Flow`
* `Telerik.Documents.Flow.FormatProviders.Pdf`
* `Telerik.Documents.Flow.FormatProviders.Doc`
* `Telerik.Documents.Spreadsheet`
* `Telerik.Documents.Spreadsheet.FormatProviders.OpenXml`
* `Telerik.Documents.Spreadsheet.FormatProviders.Pdf`
* `Telerik.Documents.Spreadsheet.FormatProviders.Xls`
* `Telerik.Documents.SpreadsheetStreaming`
* `Telerik.Zip`

## Theming

* The `TelerikTheming` class is renamed to `TelerikThemeResources`.
* The `TelerikTheming.Themes` is removed. Use the`TelerikTheme` (`enum`) to set the desired theme.

## DataGrid

* The `AlternateRowBackgroundStyle` type is changed from `DataGridAlternateRowBackgroundAppearance` to `DataGridRowBackgroundAppearance`.
* The `DataGridAlternateRowBackgroundAppearance` class is obsoleted. Use the `DataGridRowBackgroundAppearance` instead.

## ImageEditor

* The button inside the `ImageEditorCropOptionsToolbarItemViewContentTemplate`, the `ImageEditorResizeOptionsToolbarItemViewContentTemplate` and the `ImageEditorFilterOptionsToolbarItemViewContentTemplate` is changed from `Button` to `RadButton`.

* The slider inside the `ImageEditorCropOptionsToolbarItemViewContentTemplate`, the `ImageEditorResizeOptionsToolbarItemViewContentTemplate` and the `ImageEditorFilterOptionsToolbarItemViewContentTemplate` is changed from `Slider` to `RadSlider`.