---
title: 14.0.0
description: Handle the changes in the 14.0.0 release version of the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI components.
page_title: Breaking Changes in 14.0.0
slug: changes-in-14-0-0
position: 4
tag: new
---

# Breaking Changes in Version 14.0.0

This article lists the breaking changes introduced with the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI 14.0.0 release version.

## Common

`RadListView` control is deleted from the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI suite. If you are using it in your project, migrate to the [`RadCollectionView`]({%slug collectionview-overview%}) control instead.

## Buttons

The `PointerOver` visual state is renamed to `MouseOver`. This change applies to `RadTemplatedButton`, `RadSpeechToTextButton`, and `RadSmartPasteButton`.

The `ListeningPointerOver` visual state is renamed to `ListeningMouseOver`. This change applies to `RadSpeechToTextButton`.

## Chat

The `MoreButtonStyle` target type changes from the `ChatMoreButtonToolbarItemView` to `RadDropDownButton`. 

## DataForm

When using the html or multiline text as datatype in `RadDataForm`, the default editor changes from `DataFormMultiLineEditor` to `DataFormRadMultiLineEditor`. The new editor is based on Telerik .NET MAUI `RadEditor` control.

## SegmentedControl

The Telerik .NET MAUI SegmentedControl was built from the ground up to provide better performance and more features. Due to these changes, the API of the control has changed significantly. For more details on how to migrate to the new `RadSegmentedControl`, review the [Migration from Old to New RadSegmentedControl](%slug segmentedcontrol-migration%) article.

## Scheduler

The default editor inside the `EditAppointmentDialog` for the appointment description changes from .NET MAUI `Editor` to Telerik .NET MAUI `RadEditor`.

## Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code Extensions

`RadListView` control is deleted from the toolbox extensions for Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code.