---
title: 8.0.0
description: Handle the changes in the 8.0.0 release version of the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI components.
page_title: Breaking Changes in 8.0.0
slug: changes-in-8-0-0
position: 1
---

# Breaking Changes in Version 8.0.0

This article lists the breaking changes introduced with the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI 8.0.0 release version.

## DataGrid

* The `GroupHeaderStyle` type is changed from `DataGridGroupHeaderStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridGroupHeaderAppearance` class.
* The `GroupHeaderStyleSelector` type is changed from `DataGridStyleSelector` to `IStyleSelector`.
* The `GroupFooterStyle` type is changed from `DataGridGroupFooterStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridGroupFooterAppearance` class.
* The `GroupFooterStyleSelector` type is changed from `DataGridStyleSelector` to `IStyleSelector`.
* The `FrozenColumnsSplitterStyle` type is changed from `DataGridFrozenColumnsSplitterStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridFrozenColumnsSplitterAppearance` class.
* The `CurrentCellStyle` type is changed from `DataGridBorderStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridCurrentCellAppearance` class.
* The `RowBackgroundStyle` type is changed from `DataGridBorderStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridRowBackgroundAppearance` class.
* The `AlternateRowBackgroundStyle` type is changed from `DataGridBorderStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridAlternateRowBackgroundAppearance` class.
* The `LoadOnDemandRowStyle` type is changed from `DataGridLoadOnDemandRowStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridLoadOnDemandRowAppearance` class.
* The `SelectionStyle` type is changed from `DataGridBorderStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridSelectionAppearance` class.
* The `MouseHoverStyle` type is changed from `DataGridBorderStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridMouseHoverAppearance` class.
* The `DataGridColumn`'`HeaderStyle` type is changed from `DataGridColumnHeaderStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridColumnHeaderAppearance` class.
* The `DataGridColumn`'`FooterStyle` type is changed from `DataGridColumnFooterStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridColumnFooterAppearance` class.
* The `DataGridColumn`'`CellDecorationStyle` type is changed from `DataGridBorderStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridCellDecorationAppearance` class.
* The `DataGridColumn`'`CellDecorationStyleSelector` type is changed from `DataGridStyleSelector` to `IStyleSelector`.
* The `DataGridToggleRowDetailsColumn`'`CelLContentStyle` type is changed from `DataGridToggleRowDetailsCellStyle` to `Style` and targets the `DataGridToggleRowDetailsCellAppearance` class.
* The `DataGridToggleRowDetailsColumn`'`CelLContentStyleSelector` type is changed from `DataGridStyleSelector ` to `IStyleSelector`.
* The `DataGridTypedColumn`'`CellContentStyle` type is changed from `DataGridStyle` to `Style` and targets `DataGridTextCellAppearance` class.
* The `DataGridTypedColumn`'`CelLContentStyleSelector` type is changed from `DataGridStyleSelector ` to `IStyleSelector`.
* The `DataGridStyle`, `DataGridTextCellStyle`, `DataGridGroupHeaderStyle`, `DataGridGroupFooterStyle`, `DataGridFrozenColumnsSplitterStyle`, 
`DataGridBorderStyle`, `DataGridLoadOnDemandRowStyle`, `DataGridColumnHeaderStyle`, `DataGridColumnFooterStyle`, `DataGridToggleRowDetailsCellStyle` and `DataGridStyleSelector` classes are removed.

## AutoComplete

* The `RadAutoCompleteEntry ` automation Id is changed to `RadAutoCompleteTextInput`.
* The `ClearButtonStyle` target is changed from `RadButton` to `RadTemplatedButton`. For more details on how to style the clear button, review the [AutoComplete Styling]({%slug autocomplete-styling%}) article.

## Barcode

The `RadBarcode` class is migrated from the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.Barcode` namespace to the `Telerik.Maui.Controls` namespace.

The following enumerations are migrated from the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.Barcode` namespace to the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Barcode` namespace:

* `CheckMSI`
* `Encodation`
* `SymbolSize`
* `EncodingMode`
* `CodeMode`
* `ECIMode`
* `ErrorCorrectionLevel`
* `FNC1Mode`
* `SizingMode`
* `ErrorCorrectionLevel`

The following classes are migrated from the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.Barcode` namespace to the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Barcode` namespace:

* `Codabar`
* `Code11`
* `Code128`, `Code128A`, `Code128B`, and `Code128C`
* `Code25Interleaved` and `Code25Standard`
* `Code39` and `Code39Extended`
* `Code93` and `Code93Extended`
* `CodeMSI`
* `EAN128`, `EAN128A`, `EAN128B`, and `EAN128C`
* `EAN13`
* `EAN8`
* `IntelligentMail`
* `Planet`
* `Postnet`
* `Symbology1DBase`
* `UPCA`, `UPCE`, `UPCSupplement2`, and `UPCSupplement5`
* `DataMatrix`
* `PDF417`
* `QRCode`
* `SwissQRCode`
* `SymbologyBase`
* `SymbologyBase`
* `SymbologyBase`
* `SymbologyBase`

## ComboBox

* The `RadComboBoxEntry` automation Id is changed to `RadComboBoxTextInput`.
* The `DropDownButtonStyle` target is changed from `RadButton` to `RadTemplatedButton`. For more details on how to style the drop-down button, review the [ComboBox Drop Down Styling]({%slug combobox-styling%}#dropdown-styling) article.

## Map

* The Map component is moved to the `Telerik.Maui.Controls` namespace.
* The `ShapefileLayer` class is renamed to `MapShapefileLayer`.
* The `GetBestView` method type is changed from `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.ShapefileReader.LocationRect` to `Telerik.Maui.Controls.ShapefileReader.LocationRect`.
* The `SetView` method type is changed from `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.ShapefileReader.LocationRect` to `Telerik.Maui.Controls.ShapefileReader.LocationRect`.
* The `InteractionMode` property type is changed from `InteractionMode` to `MapInteractionMode`.
* The `SelectionMode` property type is changed from `SelectionMode` to `MapSelectionMode`.
* The `ZoomInCommand` and `ZoomOutCommand` commands type is changed from `ZoomInCommand` and `ZoomOutCommand` to `MapZoomInCommand` and `MapZoomOutCommand`.

## Entry

* The `ClearButtonColor`, `HoveredClearButtonColor` and `PressedClearButtonColor` properties are removed. Use the `ClearButtonStyle` (`Style` with target type `RadTemplatedButton`) to style the clear button. For more details on how to style the clear button, review the [Entry Clear Button Style]({%slug entry-styling%}#clear-button-style) article.
* The `FocusedBorderBrush` and `FocusedBorderThickness` properties are removed. Use the focused visual state to set the `BorderBrush` and `BorderThickness` properties. Review the [Entry Visual States]({%slug entry-visual-states%}) article.
* The `RadEntryEditor` automation Id is changed to `RadEntryTextInput`.

## MaskedEntry

* The `ClearButtonColor`, `HoveredClearButtonColor` and `PressedClearButtonColor` properties are removed. Use the `ClearButtonStyle` (`Style` with target type `RadTemplatedButton`) to style the clear button. For more details on how to style the ComboBox drop-down button, review the [ComboBox Drop Down Styling]({%slug combobox-styling%}#dropdown-styling) article.

## NumericInput

* The `EntryStyle` property is renamed to `TextInputStyle` and targets the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.RadTextInput` control. For more details on how to style the NumericInput, review the [NumericInput Styling]({%slug numericinput-styling%}) article.
* The `NumericInputEntry` class is removed, `NumericInputTextInput` is added.
* The NumericInput now uses `RadTemplatedButtons` for increase/decrease buttons instead of `RadButtons` - `IncreaseButtonStyle` and `DecreaseButtonStyle` now target the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.RadTemplatedButton` control.
* The `NumericInputButton` class is removed.
* The `Telerik.Maui.Controls.NumericInput.ValueChangedEventArgs` is removed. The `ValueChanged` event now uses `Telerik.Maui.Controls.ValueChangedEventArgs`. 
* The `NumericEntry ` automation Id is changed to `NumericTextInput`.

## Path

* The `Geometries` class in the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.Input` namespace is deleted. All properties and methods are moved to the `RadGeometry` class in the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Paths` namespace.

The followig clases are moved from the `Telerik.Maui.Controls` namespace to the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Paths` namespace:

* `RadPathGeometry`
* `RadEllipseGeometry`
* `RadLineGeometry`
* `RadRectangleGeometry`
* `GeometryTypeConverter`
* `RadArcSegment`
* `RadArcToSegment`
* `RadConicSegment`
* `RadCubicSegment`
* `RadLineSegment`
* `RadQuadraticSegment`
* `RadPathSegment`
* `RadPathFigure`

## Rating

* The `RadShapeRating` class is moved from the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.Input` namespace to the `Telerik.Maui.Controls` namespace.
* The `RadTemplatedRating` class is moved from the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.Input` namespace to the `Telerik.Maui.Controls` namespace.
* The `Geometries` class in namespace `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.Input` is deleted. All properties and methods are moved to the `RadGeometry` class in the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Paths` namespace.
* The `StringToItemShapeTypeConverter` class in namespace `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.Input` is renamed to the `RatingStringToItemShapeTypeConverter` class and moved to the `Telerik.Maui.Controls` namespace.