---
title: Overview
page_title: .NET MAUI DataGrid Documentation - Columns Overview
description: Check our &quot;Overview&quot; documentation article for Telerik DataGrid for .NET MAUI.
position: 0
previous_url: /controls/datagrid/columns/datagrid-columns-overview
slug: datagrid-columns-overview
---

# .NET MAUI DataGrid Columns

You can add columns in your `RadDataGrid` by working with the Columns collection of the control. It has three approaches that you can take to define different columns:

* `Manually`: by adding columns to the `RadDataGrid.Columns` collection
* `Automatically`: by setting `RadDataGrid.AutoGenerateColumns="True"`
* `Mixed`: by adding columns to the `RadDataGrid.Columns` collection and also set `RadDataGrid.AutoGenerateColumns="True"`

The `RadDataGrid` control provides the following type of columns:

* `Text Column`: Represents a column that converts the content of each associated cell to a System.String object.
* `Numerical Column`: Represents an extended `DataGridTextColumn` that presents numerical data (`int` and `double` types).
* `Boolean Column`: A special `DataGridTypedColumn` implementation that presents Boolean data.
* `Date Column:` An extended `DataGridTextColumn` that presents data of type `DateTime`.
* `Time Column`: Represents an extended `DataGridTextColumn` that presents the `TimeOfDay` of a `DateTime` type.
* `ComboBox Column`: Represents an extended `DataGridTextColumn` that uses a Picker editor to select value from a collection.
* `Template Column`: Represents a column that uses a `DataTemplate` to describe the content of each associated grid cell.

>important When `RadDataGrid.AutoGenerateColumns`="True", the `RadDataGrid` generates typed columns depending on the underlying data type.

## Properties

All types of columns inherit from the `DataGridColumn` class which provides the following properties:

* `HeaderText`(`string`)&mdash;Specifies the content to be displayed in the Header UI that represents the column.
* `HeaderStyle`(`DataGridColumnHeaderStyle`)&mdash;Specifies the Style instance that defines the appearance of the `DataGridColumnHeader` control.
* `HeaderContentTemplate`(`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Specifies the `DataTemplate` instance that defines the appearance of the header.
* `FooterText`&mdash;Defines the content that will be displayed in the Footer UI that represents the column.
* `FooterStyle`(`DataGridColumnFooterStyle`)&mdash;Defines the `Style` object that sets the appearance of each footer cell associated with this column.
* `FooterContentTemplate`(`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Defines the appearance of the footer.
* `SizeMode`(`DataGridColumnSizeMode`)&mdash;Gets or sets the `DataGridColumnSizeMode` value that controls how the column and its associated cells are sized horizontally.
  * Fixed&mdash;The column has a fixed width as defined by its Width property.
  * Stretch&mdash;The column is stretched to the available width proportionally to its desired width.
  * Auto&mdash;The columns is sized to its desired width. That is the maximum desired width of all associated cells.
* `Width`(`double`)&mdash;Specifies the fixed width for the column. Applicable when the `SizeMode` property is set to `DataGridColumnSizeMode.Fixed`.
* `MinimumWidth`(`double`)&mdash;Specifies the minimum width of a column. This property is applicable when setting `SizeMode` column property to `Fixed`. When `Minimumwidth` is set, you can not reduce the width of the column to a value lower than the `MinimumWidth`. 
* `ActualWidth`(`double`)&mdash;Gets the actual width of the column.
* `IsResizable`(`bool`)&mdash;Specifies whether the user can resize the DataGrid Column. The default value is `True`. This is only supported in `WinUI` and `MacCatalyst`.
* `IsAutoGenerated`(bool)&mdash;Gets a value indication whether the column is auto-generated internally.
* `CanUserEdit`(`bool`)&mdash;Specifies whether the user can edit the values in this column.
* `CanUserFilter`(`bool`)&mdash;Specifies whether the user can filter this column by using the built-in Filtering UI.
* `CanUserSort`(`bool`)&mdash;Specifies whether the user can sort the data by the values in this column.
* `IsVisible`(`bool`)&mdash;Gets a value indicating if a specific column should be visualized.
* `CellDecorationStyle`(`DataGridBorderStyle`)&mdash;Defines the Style object that defines the background of each cell associated with this column.
* `CellDecorationStyleSelector`(DataGridStyleSelector): Defines the `StyleSelector` instance that allows for dynamic decoration on a per cell basis.
* `CellContentTemplate`(`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Defines the appearance of each cell associated with concrete column.
* `CellEditTemplate`(`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Defines the editor associated with the concrete column. The `CellEditTemplate` is displayed when the cell is in edit mode.
* `IsFrozen`(`bool`)&mdash;Specifies whether the column is frozen. The default value is `False`.
* `IsResizable`(`bool`)&mdash;Specifies whether the user can resize the DataGrid Column. The default value is `True`. This is only supported in `WinUI` and `MacCatalyst`.

>tip More information about `CellDecorationStyle` and  `CellDecorationStyleSelector` can be found in [Columns Styling]({%slug datagrid-columns-styling%}) topic.

>tip More information about `CellContentTemplate` and  `CellEditTemplate` can be found in [Columns Styling]({%slug datagrid-cell-templates%}) topic.

>note To enable the user edit mode of the `RadDataGrid` cell, set the *RadDataGrid.UserEditMode="Cell"*.

## Example with DataGrid Columns

Here is an example containing all types of columns `RadDataGrid` control provides.

**1.** Use the following snippet to declare a `RadDataGrid` in XAML:

<snippet id='datagrid-columns-example' />

**2.** Where the `telerikDataGrid` namespace is the following:

```XAML
xmlns:telerik="http://schemas.telerik.com/2022/xaml/maui"
```

**3.** The `ViewModel` class is declared as following:

<snippet id='datagrid-column-view-model' />

**4.** And the namespace used for `NotifyPropertyChangedBase`:

 ```C#
 using Telerik.Maui.Controls
 ```

**5.** And the `Club` custom object:

<snippet id='datagrid-club-model' />

>tip For an outline of all grid features review the [.NET MAUI DataGrid Overview]({%slug datagrid-overview%}) article.

## See Also

- [ComboBox Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-picker-column %})
- [Template Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-template-column %})
- [Text Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-text-column %})
